I am Solomiya Krushelnytska.
born in 1872 in Biliavyntsi, Ukraine.
I am a Ukrainian soprano, considered to be
one of the brightest opera stars of the first
half of the 20th century.
My family kept moving for several years from
village to village until our large family
settled on the outskirts of the regional metropolis
of Ternopil.
I started singing at a young age.
I received the basics of musical training
at the Ternopil Classical Gymnasium, where
I took external exams.
Here I became close to the music group of
high school students, a member of which was
also Denis Sichinsky - later a famous composer,
the first professional musician in Galicia.
I later studied in Lviv and Milan under great
mentors who guided my career to unprecedented
professionalism.
It was common for me to perform in numerous
countries in the same week with different
languages.
In 1910, I married Italian attorney and the
mayor of Viareggio, Alfredo Riccioni.
In 1920, at the height of my career, I left
the opera world, and three years, later started
concert tours, performing in Western Europe,
Canada, and the USA.
My knowledge of eight languages allowed me
to include in my concert programs songs of
many nations.
I was a fervent promoter of Ukrainian folk
songs and works by Ukrainian composers.
My family suggested I buy a house in our hometown.
I bought a building so the entire family can
have more space to live in peace.
When World War 2 started.
Our neighborhood was leveled to the ground
and our building was occupied by the Germans
and the soviets.
I lived under the soviet’s iron curtain
for the rest of my life as a trapped singer
until my death in 1952.
During my life, I was recognized as the most
outstanding singer in the world.
Among my numerous awards and distinctions,
in particular, I was called "Wagner's diva"
of the 20th century.
Singing with me on the same stage was considered
an honor for Enrico Caruso, Titta Ruffo, and
Fedor Chaliapin.
It’s our choice to find beauty in the harsh
details of life.